# Thin Martian CMS #

Thin Martian CMS platform built on the Laravel PHP Framework

----------

*IN DEVELOPMENT. BELOW IS A DUMP OF INFORMATION AND NOTES FOR NOW, WILL BE ORGANISED AT A LATER DATE*

----------

## Setup and Installation

### System Requirements

- PHP 5.6+ (we use variadic functions)
- Laravel 5.2+
- Database (Any Laravel supported database)
- PHP GD library

### Install

> **TO DO: Package isn't currently on packagist, so use a `repositories: [{ type: 'vcs', url: 'path/to/git' }]` in your `composer.json` for now.**

Firstly, install the latest version of Laravel the usual way you do it, then:

Require the package from composer

    composer require thinmartian/cms

Update your Laravel `config/app.php` file by adding the below to the `providers` array:

    Thinmartian\Cms\CmsServiceProvider::class,

Now update your Laravel database config like normal by editing the `.env` in the root of your application. Ensure you have a successful connection to your database before proceeding.

Finally, open up a terminal and `cd` to the root of your Laravel install and run:

    php artisan cms:build

Allow the CMS to install and follow any prompts, then open up a browser, navigate to your Laravel app and go to `/admin` (e.g. `http://localhost/admin`) and you are set to go.

## Configuration

Running `php artisan cms:build` will copy the Thin Martian CMS config file over to your app (`config/cms/cms.php`). Each value in the config is fully documented and no further instruction is required. But there are a few things to note.

### media config

Out the box, Thin Martian can upload media (images, documents etc) locally or in the cloud. This feature utilises  Laravel's [Filesystem / Cloud Storage](https://laravel.com/docs/filesystem) API. Therefore, if you wish to store files in cloud storage you will need to add a few dependencies to your app first as described in the Laravel documentation https://laravel.com/docs/5.2/filesystem#configuration.

Once all setup, you can change the `media_disk` config entry in `config/cms/cms.php` to match your `filesystem` entry that you wish to use as your default disk for media uploads.

Finally, ensure you set your `media_cloud_url` to the endpoint of your cloud storage, this endpoint will be used to server the media files back to the user.

### media video

Thin Martian CMS can upload and encode many video filetypes ready for the web, it does this using [Amazon Elastic Transcoder](https://aws.amazon.com/elastictranscoder/). To use Elastic Transcoder, you will require a Amazon S3 account, and the `media_disk` setting (in `config/cms/cms.php`) must be set to `s3`. Once you have setup your s3 account to work with Thin Martian CMS (above) then no further changes are required, the "video" option should appear as an allowed media type.


## Resetting the CMS

If, for whatever reason you want to reset the entire CMS back to pre-install state you can do this by running:

    php artisan cms:destroy

**IMPORTANT**: This will delete **EVERYTHING** related to your Thin Martian CMS install. It will delete all generated content (models, controllers, migrations etc), drop all your generated database tables and delete all your custom `.yaml` definitions. You should never run this command in production!

## Adding Modules to the CMS

All modules in the CMS are controlled from a `.yaml` file, and you can create as many as you wish. To create your own CMS module:

1. Add the `*.yaml` definition file to the `app/Cms/Definitions` folder (you will see a couple generated by the CMS there already, and can use those as an example
2. Your `*.yaml` file should follow the API set out below, this `yaml` file defines all aspects of the module (from it's title to the form fields on the page).
3. Once you have created your `yaml` file, open up a terminal and from the root of your project run:
```
php artisan cms:build
```
4. Once this has run, you should see your module appear in the `/admin` area.

### Example

Create `app/Cms/Definitions/News.yaml` and add the following:

```
meta:
	title: "News"
	records_per_page: 15
	show_in_nav: true
	icon: "file-o"
  
fields:
	title:
		type: "text"
		label: "Title"
		persist: true
		validationOnCreate: "required|max:80"
		validationOnUpdate: "required|max:80"
	category:
		type: "select"
		label: "Category"
		persist: true
		validationOnCreate: "required"
		validationOnUpdate: "required"
		options:
			latest: "Latest News"
			archive: "Archive"
	photo:
		type: "media"
		label: "Select photo"
		allowed:
			- image
		limit: 1
		validationOnCreate: required
	media:
		type: media
		label: "Select media"
	published_at:
		type: "datetime"
		label: "Date of article"
		persist: true
  ...
  
listing:
	title:
		label: "Title"
		sortable: true
	category:
		label: "Category"
		sortable: true
	published_at:
		label: "Published"
		sortable: true

searchable:
	- title
	- category
```

Now run `php artisan cms:build`

Finally, visit `/admin` in your browser and you shoudl see it in the navigation on the left ready to use.

## YAML Definition API

### meta

Define the meta information for the module

    meta:
    	key: value
    	
**title**   
`string` | *required*  
The name of the module.

**records_per_page**   
`integer` | *optional* | default: `50` | Editable in the config
How many records should appear per page in the listing

**show_in_nav**   
`boolean` | *optional* | default: true
Should this module appear in the main navigation

**icon**   
`string` | *required*
FontAwesome icon to represent this module (ignore the `fa-` part, for example enter `pencil` and not `fa-pencil`)


----------


### fields

Define the fields for the form.

	fields:
		fieldname:
			[options]


The following options are global for all field types:

**type**   
`string` | *required*  
The type of field (all documented below).

**label**   
`string` | *required*  
The label for the field.

**value**   
`string` | *optional*  
Set a default value on the field

**placeholder**   
`string` | *optional*  
Set a placeholder on the field (if the field type accepts it)

**persist**   
`boolean` | *optional* | default: `false`   
Should this field be persisted to the database. If false, this field will not be in the migration and will not be stored (ideal for password_confirmation fields for example).

**validationOnCreate**   
`string` | *optional*   
Standard laravel piped validation rules. These rules will be applied on `create` only.

**validationOnUpdate**   
`string` | *optional*   
Standard laravel piped validation rules. These rules will be applied on `update` only.

**info**   
`string` | *optional*   
Display a small info tip next to the field.

**infoUpdate**   
`string` | *optional*   
Display a small info tip next to the field only on the `edit` screen.

**class**   
`string` | *optional*   
Add a custom css class(es) to the field.

**style**   
`string` | *optional*   
Add a custom css `style` attribute to the field.

**data-***   
`string` | *optional*   
Add a custom `data-*` attribute to the field.

### Types

###`text`

*No special options.*

###`email`

*No special options.*

###`password`

*No special options.*

###`hidden`

*No special options.*

###`number`

**min**   
`integer` | *optional*  
The minimum number allowed.

###`textarea`

**rows**   
`integer` | *optional*  
Set the `rows` height of the `textarea`.

###`wysiwyg`

**rows**   
`integer` | *optional*  
Set the `rows` height of the `wysiwyg`.

###`select`

**options**   
`object` | *required*  
Key - value pair of the select options.

    category:
		type: "select"
    	label: "Select a category"
    	options: 
      		first: "First Category"
      		second: "Second Category"

###`checkbox`

*Same definition as `select`.*

###`radio`

*Same definition as `select`.*

###`boolean`

*No special options.*

###`date`

*No special options.*

###`datetime`

*No special options.*

###`media`
   
**limit**   
`integer` | *optional*  
Limit the amount of media items allowed. Remove for infinite.

**allowed**   
`array['image', 'video', 'document', 'embed']` | *optional*    
Restrict to certain media types. Remove for all types.

    media:
		type: "media"
		label: "Upload media"
		limit: 1
		allowed:
			- image
			- document


----------

### listing

Define the fields to show on the listing/index page of the module.

	listing:
		fieldname:
			[options]
		

**column**   
`string` | *optional*  
If the column name does not match the `fieldname` key for this value then enter it here. Ideal for `concat()` for example

**label**   
`string` | *required*  
Heading for this column in the listing.

**sortable**   
`boolean` | *required*  
Can the listing be sorted by this field

----------

### searchable

Define the fields that can be searched in the listing

	searchable:
		- fieldname
		- fieldname

----------


### Example

Take a look at the News example above

----------


## Contributing

Follow these instructions to setup the Thin Martian CMS for development locally.

### Install Laravel

Go through the usual procedure to install Laravel, [follow the instructions](https://laravel.com/docs/5.2#installing-laravel) on the official Laravel website.

### Configure Laravel

Do your usual routine to get Laravel up and running (editing the config files etc). Ensure you setup a new database, and configure the `.env` file to utilise your new database. Then get Laravel booted in your browser.

### Create a folder for your development area

Create a `packages/thinmartian/cms` directory in the root of your newly installed Laravel project and git clone it with this repo.

You should end up with a structure like:

    packages/thinmartian/cms/
		src/
		tests/

### Install the node and composer dependencies

Easy, from the `packages/thinmartian/cms` directory run

    composer install

And 

	npm install


### Edit the root `composer.json`

Now you need to make a few changes to the root `composer.json` file. **NOT** the one you just cloned, the root of your Laravel project created by your Laravel install.

Make changes to the `autoload` section so it looks like this:

	...
	"psr-4": {
		"App\\": "app/",
		"Thinmartian\\Cms\\App\\": "packages/thinmartian/cms/src/app",
		"Thinmartian\\Cms\\": "packages/thinmartian/cms/src"
	},
    "files": [
    	"packages/thinmartian/cms/src/app/Support/helpers.php"
    ]
	...

We use two psr-4 loaders, as the CMS tries to conform to the exact same folder structure as Laravel, which means a lowercase `app/` directory. Not having the `Thinmartian\\Cms\\App\\` loader would cause errors on `composer update`'s as `php artisan optmize` would not be able to find a `/App` directory before a `composer dump`, and Laravel runs this command on it's own `post-update-cmd` before any `composer dump`'s.

Now look in the `packages/thinmartian/cms/composer.json` and copy across all the `require` packages that don't already exist in the root `composer.json` file, then:

    composer update

This will pull in the packages. As we haven't "installed" the CMS, composer knows nothing about our `packages/thinmartian/cms` vendor directory, so it won't load our packages from there, so in development we have to pull them in from the main Laravel app instead.

### Edit your Laravel config

Now we need to tell Laravel about our development version of Thin Martian CMS, open up your `config/app.php` in the root of your Laravel install and add the following to your `providers` array:

	Thinmartian\Cms\CmsServiceProvider::class,


### Dump the composer autoload classes

	composer dump -o
	php optimize

### Build the CMS

Simply run the below from the root of your Laravel project and follow the instructions:

	php artisan cms:build

### You're set

Navigate to `/admin` in your browser and you should be presented with a login screen, enter the admin details you just created and you are ready to code.

### Assets

To compile assets, use the usual `gulp` or `gulp watch` from within the `src` folder (e.g. `packages/thinmartian/cms/src`).

When a user uses the CMS all calls will be made to the laravel root `public/vendor/cms` folder, this would mean a `cms:build` artisan command would have to be run for every style change, this is far from ideal. So within your nginx conf, add something similar to the following to your `server` group

    location ~ ^/vendor/cms/(.*)$ {
        alias /path/to/thinmartiancms/packages/thinmartian/cms/src/public/$1;
    }

Now all calls to `/vendor/cms/css/app.css` for example will be redirected to the `src/` compiled version. Of course, DO NOT add the above conf to the production site, the user must use `php artisan cms:build` for this.

### Testing

The Thin Martian CMS by nature relies heavily... well completely on the Laravel framework and ecosystem and a fully installed and working copy of `laravel/laravel`, as all routes and classes are pulled from there. Therefore, a fully functioning CMS is required to run all tests.

The `phpunit.xml` in Thin Martian CMS repo you just installed uses the autoloader in the root of your laravel install `bootstrap/autoload.php`, this allows us to extend `Illuminate\Foundation\Testing\TestCase` and use most of Laravel's testing helpers.

Once you have installed your development environment as above, you should be able to simply run `phpunit` from your `packages/thinmartian/cms` directory.

If you get a phpunit error then:

1. Install phpunit globally as per the PHPUnit website instructions
2. Or, add `vendor/bin/phpunit` to your `$PATH`
3. Or, call `./vendor/bin/phpunit` instead of just `phpunit`

### Relationships

(unifished documentation - currently 1-2-1, 1-2-many, meny-2-many work)

Eample: Article has 

Add to authors.yaml:

```
# hasOne/belongsTo, hasMany/belongsTo, belongsToMany/belongsToMany, hasManyThrough, morhpedByMany
relations:
  article:
    type: 'hasOne'
#  article:
#    type: 'hasMany'
#  article:
#    type: 'belongsToMany'
#  article:
#    type: 'hasManyThrough'
```

Add to articles.yaml:

```
# Field defs for the create/edit form
fields:
  author_id: # singular name
    type: "relation"
    label: "Author"
    persist: true
    relationType: 'belongsTo' # optional: belongsTo/belongsToMany/hasManyThrough/morhpedByMany
    className: 'author' # optional: classname related to this model e.g if the class is CmsAuthor you can put 'author'
    relationField: 'name' # optional: name of field to show in dropdown stuff
```

### Versioning

1. composer require mpociot/versionable
2. php artisan migrate --path=vendor/mpociot/versionable/src/migrations
3. add 'version: true' to 'meta' section of yaml
4. TODO: how can we view old versions and restore?

#### Example of excluding a field from versioning
```
class User extends Model {

    use Mpociot\Versionable\VersionableTrait;

    /**
     * @var array
     */
    protected $dontVersionFields = [ 'last_login_at' ];

}
```